docs/pages/faq/general/ef-code-first.md, before:

---
permalink: ef-code-first
---

## What is Entity Framework Code First? 

When you start learning Entity Framework, you will often see the term **Entity Framework Code First**. Code first is one of the three approaches to create an entity model.

## Answer

In Entity Framework, code first was introduced in Entity Framework 4.1. Code First modeling workflow targets a database that doesn't exist, and Code First will create it.

Code-First APIs will create the database on the fly based on your entity classes and configuration. It can also update the database if the model changes, using a feature called Code First Migrations.

### Related links

For further details please see the following links.

 - [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/entity_framework/entity_framework_code_first_approach.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/entity_framework/entity_framework_code_first_approach.htm)
 - [http://www.entityframeworktutorial.net/code-first/what-is-code-first.aspx](http://www.entityframeworktutorial.net/code-first/what-is-code-first.aspx)

Commit message:

Added Code first vs Db First and where to download EF articles

docs/pages/faq/general/ef-code-first.md, after:

---
permalink: ef-code-first
---

## What is Entity Framework Code First? 

When you start learning Entity Framework, you will often see the term **Entity Framework Code First**. Code first is one of the three approaches to create an entity model.

## Answer

In Entity Framework, code first was introduced in Entity Framework 4.1. Code First modeling workflow targets a database that doesn't exist, and Code First will create it.

Code-First APIs will create the database on the fly based on your entity classes and configuration. It can also update the database if the model changes, using a feature called Code First Migrations.

 - Code First is very popular approach and has full control over the code rather than database activity. 
 - In this approach, we can do all the database operations from the code and manual changes to database have been lost and everything is depended on the code.
 - In this you need to create POCO entities as data model.

### Related links

For further details please see the following links.

 - [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/entity_framework/entity_framework_code_first_approach.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/entity_framework/entity_framework_code_first_approach.htm)
 - [http://www.entityframeworktutorial.net/code-first/what-is-code-first.aspx](http://www.entityframeworktutorial.net/code-first/what-is-code-first.aspx)
